

(1/3) Welcome to the Succeed Study brought to you by UCSF. Each day, you'll receive a message from us. Customize your texts at xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/profile
(2/3) If you have any questions, contact the SUCCEED study team at: https://is.gd/contactsucceedstudy
(3/3) If you feel ill or get injured, call your doctor or 911. Please respond 'Y' to confirm that you received this message.

> y

(1/2) Over the next 12 weeks, we recommend that you eat 5+ servings/day of vegetables, 3+ servings/day of whole grains, and 2+ servings/week of dark fish.
(2/2) If you drink alcohol, do so in moderation. Avoid processed meats and sugar-sweetened beverages.

Making changes to your diet is hard. Start small, and add more changes gradually.

> Is anybody listening to replies?

Keep track of your hard work at xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/track

A diet high in red/processed meats, refined grains, potatoes, and sweets after colon cancer is associated with a 2-fold higher risk of recurrence and death.

Preparation is key to success! Use our meal planning guide to plan your meals at the start of each week: xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/meal-planning

Dedicate time each week to prep batches of vegetables and whole grains to have ready to go for meals and snacks.

Take a moment to review and update your diet goals for this week at xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/goals
the link in SMS takes you to the insecure ( HTTP) version of the Succeed web site.

Make a healthy plate. Fill 1/2 with vegetables, 1/4 with whole grains, 1/4 with lean protein.

Use measuring cups and spoons and a kitchen scale to learn portion sizes. Soon you'll be a pro and can eyeball it!

Looking for healthy beverage ideas? Try sparkling water with a splash of juice. Get more recipes for special occasions at: xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/recipes

Choose whole over refined grains. A high glycemic load (high refined grains) is associated with a 2-fold higher risk of death among colon cancer survivors.

Sweetened beverages include soda, punch, lemonade or other fruit drinks, and sports drinks. Coffee, tea, or mixed alcoholic drinks can also have a lot of added sugar.

Hello. Do you know how you are going to get your 5+ servings of vegetables tomorrow? Text back 'Y' or 'N'.

> n

Make a plan now for incorporating vegetables in your meals and snacks tomorrow. You can do it!

Track after each meal or at the end of each day - whatever works best for you! xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/track

(1/2) 1 whole grain serving = 1/2 cup cooked grains such as oatmeal, brown rice, whole wheat pasta or 1 slice of whole wheat bread.
(2/2) 1/2 cup = a small handful, a light bulb, a cupcake wrapper.

If you have trouble tracking your diet on SUCCEED, use pen and paper, take photos of your meals, or ask a friend or family member for help.

(1/2) Take a moment to think about reasons why you may not get enough vegetables, whole grains, or fish in your diet.
(2/2) Brainstorm how to get past what's stopping you. Planning meals and prepping food once a week are common solutions.

CHALLENGE: Include a vegetable that you don’t usually eat this week! Go to xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/recipes for ideas!

Have you tried one of the SUCCEED Recipes? Text back Y or N.

> N

Our tested, simple recipes are great ways to prepare whole grains, vegetables, and fish. Give one a try: xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/recipes

> Only two out of 30+ are for one serving. Most are for four or more.

Anything we can do better? Contact the SUCCEED study team at https://is.gd/contactsucceedstudy

Hello. Do you know what you will eat for dinner tomorrow? Text back 'Y' or 'N'.

> What difference does it make?

1 serving of vegetables = 1/2 cup (1 cup of raw leafy greens).

(1/2) Patients consuming 4 8-oz. cups of coffee per day had a 42% lower risk of colon cancer recurrence or death compared to non-coffee drinkers.
(2/2) Drink your coffee black or with a little skim milk or unsweetened soy or almond milk.

Do you put any caloric sweetener in your coffee, such as sugar or honey?

> not me. I'm sweet enough as it is.

Did you include a vegetable that you don’t usually eat in your diet last week? Text back Y or N.

> I ate so many delicious things....
> and they were complicated
> So who is to say that the truffles or tomatillos were out of the ordinary?

Alternative milks (eg, soy, almond, rice, oat) can be good additions to coffee, tea, or oatmeal. But watch out for added sugar. Try unsweetened varieties.

Congratulations on completing 4 weeks of the SUCCEED study!

Having a support network can help you achieve your diet goals. Do you have the support of a friend or family member? Text back Y or N.

> Um, define 'support'
> "perceived support is consistently linked to better mental health whereas received support and social integration are not"
> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_support

> Choose fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, sardines, herring. 1 serving = 3-5 oz cooked = the size of a checkbook.

Eat a variety of whole grains every day, such as oatmeal, brown rice, whole grain pasta, and whole wheat bread. Aim for 1 serving at each meal.

Reflect on your goals from the start of the study. Did you achieve any of your diet goals in the first month? Text back 'Y' or 'N'.

y

That's great! Take a moment to update your goals for next month at xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/goals

Choose fish, poultry, beans, nuts, lentils, soy, and nonfat plain yogurt over red meat. Avoid bacon, cold cuts, and other processed meats.

The more veggies - and the more variety - the better! Aim for 2+ servings at each meal.

Are you filling 1/2 (or more!) of your plate at each meal with vegetables? Reply Y or N.

Drink water, tea, or coffee (with little or no added sugar). Avoid sweet drinks, including 100% fruit juice.

QUIZ: What is the recommended minimum number of servings of fish per week?
2 to 3

We recommend 2+ servings of fish per week. Choose fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, herring, mackerel, sardines.

Monitoring your diet will help you stay on track and accomplish your goals! Track your food and drinks at xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/track

On a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being not hard at all and 10 being extremely hard, how hard has it been for you to meet your dietary goals?

10

Take a moment to consider what the hardest part is for you. Let us know how we can help at: https://is.gd/contactsucceedstudy

Check the newspaper or flyers in the mail to find sales on in-season produce. Farmers' markets can also be a good option.

QUIZ: What is the recommended minimum number of servings of vegetables per day?

> 5

You're right! We recommend 5+ servings of vegetables per day. 1 servings = 1/2 cup (1 cup of raw leafy greens).

Congratulations on finishing 6 weeks of SUCCEED! We hope you're feeling great!

Measure out and pre-package snacks. For example: 3 cups air-popped popcorn, 1 cup cherry tomatoes, 1 cup of carrot sticks.

>> Measure out and pre-package snacks.
> ?? I'm not sure I understand the meaning of this phrase.

Stick to your grocery budget: take stock of your pantry, check sales flyers, plan your meals and snacks, make a shopping list, and don't shop on an empty stomach!

Here's a breakfast idea: 1 cup of cooked oatmeal with 1-2 Tbsp nut butter. 2 servings of whole grains and healthy fat & protein!

Have you changed your eating and/or drinking habits since starting the SUCCEED study? Text back 'Y' or 'N'.

> y

Way to go! Keep up the good work.

Check the Nutrition Facts label and ingredients list to choose whole grain items. The first ingredient should be an intact grain: whole wheat, brown rice, oatmeal, etc.

Buy vegetables in season or frozen. These often cost less and taste better. If you choose canned produce, avoid added salt and sugar.

Limit pre-prepared meals, like canned soup or frozen dinners. The food you cook yourself often costs less and is healthier!

Cook large batches of items that freeze well, such as soups, stews, and casseroles.

Wash and cut up vegetables to have on hand for meals and snacks. Add cold water to the container to keep vegetables, like celery sticks, crisp.

Re-purpose leftovers in omelets, pasta sauce, soups, sandwiches, salads, or burritos (on whole wheat tortillas).

(1/2) Plan your meals and snacks for the week. Start with what you have in your fridge, freezer, or pantry and check sales flyers.
(2/2) Find recipes you want to try with your available ingredients at xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/recipes

Use herbs, spices, oil, vinegar, lemon or lime juice, hot sauces, or nonfat plain yogurt to dress up vegetables and grains.

Grill your vegetables! Lightly coat zucchini, eggplant, onion, or bell peppers with olive oil, salt, and pepper then grill over medium heat.

Congratulations on completing 8 weeks of the SUCCEED study! You are doing great!

Sandwiches with tuna fish, hummus, or nut butters on whole wheat bread are a delicious, portable meal or snack!

(1/2) When eating out, consider ordering from the appetizer menu or sharing an entree with a friend.
(2/2) You can also ask for a to-go box when the restaurant brings out your meal; box up extra portions before you dig in!

Hello. Do you know what you will have for lunch tomorrow? Text back Y or N.

> n

Take a moment to plan now. Include 1+ serving of whole grains and 2+ servings of vegetables.

Use everyday objects to eyeball serving sizes: 3 ounces of meat = deck of cards; 1/2 cup = tennis ball.

Check the serving size and number of servings in packaged foods. Some small items actually have 2+ servings per package!

Reflect on your diet goals at xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/goals. Did you achieve your goal last month? Text back 'Y' or 'N'.

> n

We're here to help. Tell us what goals you need help with at: https://is.gd/contactsucceedstudy

When you feel you are too busy to track your food, remember why you are doing it! It only takes a few minutes a day!

Hello. Do you know what you will have for dinner tomorrow? Text back Y or N.

Traveling? Head to a grocery store or a restaurant with a salad bar for quick and healthy meal options.

CHALLENGE: Try including an unfamiliar whole grain this week, such as farro, barley, quinoa, bulgur, or wild rice. Find recipes at: xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/recipes

QUIZ: What is the recommended minimum number of servings of whole grains per day?

> 5

We recommend 3+ servings of whole grains per day. 1 serving = 1/2 cup cooked pasta, grains, or rice or 1 slice whole wheat bread.

Forgetting to track? Make tracking part of your daily routine. Ask friends and family to remind you.

(1/2) Knowing if a food is whole grain can be tricky! Some foods are always whole grain: oatmeal, brown & wild rice, popcorn.
(2/2) Read the ingredient list to make sure the first ingredient is "whole."

(1/2) Be wary of foods labeled: "100% wheat", "multi-grain", "contains whole grain", "7 grains", "cracked wheat", "made with whole grains", "made with whole wheat", "bran".
(2/2) Labels can be misleading. Look for "whole" or "intact" at the start of the ingredient list to be sure that a food is whole grain!

Preparing healthy meals takes time. Get organized, grocery shop, and do some prep work at the start of each week.

Consider buying healthy convenience items, like pre-washed salad greens and chopped vegetables, to save time.

Keep thinks interesting by choosing produce and whole grains with a variety of flavors, textures, scents, and colors.

Use small amounts of strong flavored cheeses, such as Parmesan and Feta, to add flavor to soups, sandwiches, and salads.
Use small amounts of strong flavored cheeses, such as Parmesan and Feta, to add flavor to soups, sandwiches, and salads.

Did you try a new recipe last week? Text back Y or N.

> Y

Awesome! We hope you enjoyed it!

CHALLENGE: Skip the red meat (beef, pork, lamb) tomorrow! Chicken, turkey, fish, and low-fat dairy are all excellent protein sources.

If you're feeling bored, look for new recipes or ingredients. Subscribe to a cooking magazine, search online, and check our website: xxxxxxx.yyyy.edu/recipes

Did you eat any red meat (e.g., beef, pork, lamb) yesterday? Text back 'Y' or 'N'.
n

Way to go! Keep up the good work.

You've made it to week 12 of the SUCCEED study! Are you prepared to stay on track after the study ends? Reply Y or N.
Y

Great!

Times may come up when are unable to stick to your diet. That's OK! Just get right back on track at your next meal.

Make healthy choices when eating out. Ask to replace starchy side dishes (white rice, white pasta, potatoes) with a salad or other vegetable.
Make healthy choices when eating out. Ask to replace starchy side dishes (white rice, white pasta, potatoes) with a salad or other vegetable.

Reflect on the goals you made when you started the SUCCEED study. Did you achieve any of your diet goals? Text back 'Y' or 'N'.
y

That's great! Congratulations!
That's great! Congratulations!

We hope the SUCCEED study has helped you establish a successful approach to healthy eating. Set goals, make a plan, & dedicate time to preparing meals. You can do it!

Congratulations on completing the SUCCEED study! Thank you for your participation. We hope you continue to eat well and wish you all the best.
Congratulations on completing the SUCCEED study! Thank you for your participation. We hope you continue to eat well and wish you all the best.
Thank you. And fingers crossed you get good results.